Skip to main content
Coursera
Search in course
Search in course
Menu pop-up Collapsed
Welcome
What is Machine Learning?
End of Module Review & Evaluation
Practice Assignment: Practice Quiz: Intro to Machine Learning
Submitted
Graded Assignment: Graded Quiz: Intro to Machine Learning
Submitted
Machine Learning with Python
Module 1
Graded Quiz: Intro to Machine Learning
Graded Quiz: Intro to Machine Learning
Assignment details
Due
December 27, 11:59 PM ESTDec 27, 11:59 PM EST

Submitted
December 26, 1:00 AM ESTDec 26, 1:00 AM EST

Attempts
Unlimited

Your grade
To pass you need at least 60%. We keep your highest score.

40%
Graded Quiz: Intro to Machine Learning
Graded Assignment • 15 min

DueDec 27, 11:59 PM EST
1.
Question 1
In a dataset, what do the columns represent?


Variable Type



Observations



Independent Variables



Features


1 point
2.
Question 2
What is a major benefit of unsupervised learning over supervised learning?


Discover previously unknown information about the dataset.



Better evaluates the performance of a built model.



Being able to produce a prediction based on unlabelled data.



Explore the relationship between features and the target.


1 point
3.
Question 3
What’s the correct order for using a model? 


Split the data into the training and test sets, fit the model on the train set, clean the data, evaluate model accuracy.



Split the data into training and test sets, fit the model on the train set, evaluate model accuracy.



Clean the data, fit the model on the entire dataset, split the data into training and test sets, evaluate model accuracy.



Clean the data, split the data into training and test sets, fit the model on the train set, evaluate model accuracy.


1 point
4.
Question 4
Which of the following is suitable for an unsupervised learning?


Examine the relationship between academic performance and level of in-class participation using observations that include a feature recording each student’s grade.



Segment customers into groups for discovering similar characteristics between them.



Predict house price based on location, house size, and number of rooms.



Classifying benign and malignant tumors using historical data on tumor shape, color, etc.


1 point
5.
Question 5
The main purpose of the NumPy library is to: 


Construct machine learning models.



Perform computations on arrays efficiently.



Visualize results in 2D and 3D plots.



Achieve scientific computations.


1 point
Coursera Honor Code  Learn more
I, sameer Yogeshkumar bagul, understand that submitting work that isn’t my own may result in permanent failure of this course or deactivation of my Coursera account.*
You must select the checkbox in order to submit the assignment
Last saved on Dec 26, 1:00 AM EST

